---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Different and the Same
date: 2017-08-31
labels:
  - Javascript
  - Design
---

I've always considered the relationship between code and design to be a strange one. In one case, they are on complete opposite sides of the spectrum. Coding, being the logical side, would generally be black and white where one thing does x, and another thing does y. Then there's design, which by being on the creastive side, would also be black and white, but at the same time be red, blue, magenta, teal, and every color in between. One thing that could do x to one person, could do y to another, while also doing z to yet another person, and so on. However, despite their differences, they could never be more alike. Both coding and design are used to create. They start with a blank canvas and with a little bit of hard work and passion (along with the occasional mental breakdown), a masterpiece is created, each belonging to the individual who made it. Both aspects can be used to see how the creator thinks as opposed to another, in which the same goal can be acheived in multiple different ways, depending on how a person decides to approach it.

This is the exact reason why an art student like me took interest in learning how to code. I've already started off with a small amount of HTML/CSS knowledge from classes I took for my Digital Media degree at LCC. Then at UH, I've dabbled in some Java, C and C++. Finally, in this class, I begin tackling on Javascript. To be honest, in the process of learning code through multiple different platforms, the rules and structures of each individual language starts to get muddled together. So being a Javascript novice, I do find it a bit of a challenge differentiating between how to do certain things as opposed to how I do it in another language. But of course, like everything else, it will come in time, and I do hope to become somewhat proficient in as many coding languages as I possibly can.

E06 was a very helpful way to get us up and running to using Javascript. For the most part, the concepts are the same, if not easier than C, C++, and Java. From a Software Engineers perspective, I do believe it is a good programming platform to get accumulated with. I respect that there are certain things you can do in Javascript that you can't do in other languages, such as putting different types of objects in the same array, so I can see the benefits that one can reach by using it.

As for the WODs, as stressful as it can be, I trust that in time, it will help us grow into better and more proficient programmers by the end of the semester. By giving us mysterious challenges to overcome in a limited amount of time, it inhibits us to think not only harder, but faster as well. I can definitely see that way of learning reep a higher learners outcome than by the traditional lecture and test style of teaching. Although it may not seem as enjoyable at first, I can see us learning to appreciate it as the semester goes on.
