---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Legal Plagiarism
date: 2017-10-05
labels:
  - Semantic UI
  - UI Frameworks
  - HTML/CSS
---

<p>
  There are two main aspects to web development: The attributes and the design.The attributes are responsible for the functionality of the website. It makes sure that if one action is done, then a certain result is to follow and so on for every possible action that can be done in that web page. Then, after all aspects of functionality is complete, it's time to work on the aethetics of the web page. That's when the attributes steps out of the ring and tag teams the designer. The design is responsible for one thing: Make it look pretty. This part requires a bit of creativity in order to acheive exactly what the client wants. However, although computer science and graphic design do go hand in hand in web development, many computer science students lack the ability or willpower to provide the "make it pretty" aspect of the web page. Luckily, there is a solution to those in need: <a href="https://semantic-ui.com/introduction/getting-started.html">Semantic UI</a>.
</p>

<p>
  Bill Gates, the founding father of Microsoft once said...
</p>

<h1>
  “I choose a lazy person to do a hard job. Because a lazy person will find an easy way to do it.”
</h1>

<p> Now, anybody can spend the time to learn HTML/CSS. It is a fairly simple concept. However, taking basic knowledge of HTML/CSS and applying it towards a dynamic and visually appealing web page is a lot harder than it looks. It's like starting with a blank canvas and knowing what needs to go on it, however, lacking the artistic ability to make it happen. That is where Semantic UI comes into play.</p>

<p>
  Like Gates says, why choose the hard worker over the lazy worker? Instead of spending hours upon hours writing out intricate HTML/CSS in order to provide a sophisticated web page, why not... steal it? Semantic UI provides a plethora of styles and design for you. All you have to do is copy, paste, and adjust it to your needs. And the best part about this form of plagiarism? It is completely legal! You can start with a blank canvas, but your buddy Semantic UI will provide you with an outline of exactly what you need. All you have to do is color it in. E. A. S. Y. So you can make a web page look completely stunning with just a few lines of codes provided to you by our friends over at the Semantic UI website? Who WOULDN'T think that was a good idea? While your graphic design buddy is over there slaving away over a hot keyboard trying to code an entire website from scratch, you have the premade box version of that exact website. Just add 1 cup of links, 3 tablespoons of images, commit it to github at 350 degrees and you are done! 3 hours before your graphic design buddy finishes and now you have time to catch the 6:30 showing of the new Marvel movie. I don't know about you, but in the battle between the hard worker and the lazy worker, the lazy worker triumphs. The lesson in all of this is remember kids: work smart, not hard.
 </p>

<p>
  Of course, like all things, Semantic UI does have its own set of drawbacks. Your graphic design buddy does have much more artistic freedom and can provide for certain specific needs that may not be accessible through Semantic UI. It is also like learning a completely new coding language and you do have to spend quite some time learning the syntax and style of it in order to have it run smoothly. But, all in all, if you don't have the time or skill required to incorporate HTML/CSS in its purest form towards building a website, Semantic UI is a great way to get the ball rolling without needing much skill or much time. And althought it may not be able to replicate a webpage or provide exact style, it is enough to get the job done. Not everyone is born the Picasso of website design so it's a great set of training wheels to get you to where you want to be in half the time.
 </p>
